Rewrite of TLS testing guide (#555)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/09-Testing_for_Weak_Cryptography/01-Testing_for_Weak_SSL_TLS_Ciphers_Insufficient_Transport_Layer_Protection.md

## Summary

TODO

## Common Issues

Transport layer security related issues can be broadly split into the following areas:

### Server Configuration

There are a large number of protocol versions, ciphers and extensions supported by TLS. Many of these are considered to be legacy, and have cryptographic weaknesses, such as those listed below. Note that new weaknesses are likely to be identified over time, so this list may be incomplete.

* SSLv2 (DROWN)
* SSLv3 (POODLE)
* TLSv1.0 (BEAST)
* EXPORT ciphers
* NULL ciphers
* Anonymous ciphers (these may be supported on SMTP servers, as discussed in [RFC 7672](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7672#section-8.2)
* RC4 ciphers (NOMORE)
* CBC mode ciphers (BEAST, Lucky 13)
* TLS compression (CRIME)
* Weak DHE keys (LOGJAM)

#### Exploitability

> It should be emphasised that while many of these attacks have been demonstrated in a lab environment, they are not generally considered practical to exploit in the real world, as they require a (usually active) man-in-the-middle attack, and significant resources. As such, they are unlikely to be exploited by anyone other than nation states.

Author: I disagree with the suggestion from textlint for a few reasons:

1. I've never heard this phrase used before in ~10 years in IT/security. Is this some WSTG specifically terminology?
2. When I Googled it, out of the first two pages of results, only 2/20 of them were using it in the context of security - the other 18 were all unrelated. This clearly isn't a common term.
3. It doesn't match the terminology used in any of the TLS-related RFCs, which all talk about `man-in-the-middle` attacks
4. "Manipulator" would mean that it is an active attack (rather than passive interception), which is not always true.

> It should be emphasised that while many of these attacks have been demonstrated in a lab environment, they are not generally considered practical to exploit in the real world, as they require a (usually active) man-in-the-middle attack, and significant resources. As such, they are unlikely to be exploited by anyone other than nation states.

Reviewer: The Zaproxy team did a twitter/slack poll (late July/early Aug) on this and the community settled on manipulator-in-the-middle. The WSTG decided to adopt the same.

Ref: https://github.com/OWASP/wstg/issues/536

I think you've since changed this to MitM which is fine.

Over the years there have been vulnerabilities in the various TLS implementations. There are too many to list here, but some of the key ones are:

* [Debian OpenSSL Predictable Random Number Generator](https://www.debian.org/security/2008/dsa-1571) (CVE-2008-0166)
* [OpenSSL Insecure Renegotiation](https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv/20091111.txt) (CVE-2009-3555)
* [OpenSSL Heartbleed](https://heartbleed.com) (CVE-2014-0160)
* [F5 TLS POODLE](https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K15882) (CVE-2014-8730)
* [Microsoft Schannel Denial of Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security-updates/securitybulletins/2014/ms14-066) (MS14-066 / CVE CVE-2014-6321)

### Application Vulnerabilities

As well as the underlying TLS configuration being securely configured, the application also needs to use it in a secure way. Some of these points are addressed elsewhere in the WSTG:

* [Not sending sensitive data over unencrypted channels (WSTG-CRYP-03)](03-Testing_for_Sensitive_Information_Sent_via_Unencrypted_Channels.md)
* [Setting the HTTP Strict-Transport-Security header (WSTG-CONF-07)](../02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/07-Test_HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security.md)

> * [Setting the Secure flag on cookies (WSTG-SESS-02)](../06-Session_Management_Testing/02-Testing_for_Cookies_Attributes.md)

Reviewer 2: Yeah ... Let's keep a note of this till the end. PDF generation is a pita with internal links, that's for sure.

#### Mixed Active Content

> Mixed active content is when active resources (such as scripts to CSS) are loaded over unencrypted HTTP and included into a secure (HTTPS) page. This is dangerous because it would allow an attacker to modify these files (as they are sent unencrypted), which could allow them to execute arbitrary code JavaScript in the page. Passive content (such as images) loaded over an insecure connection can also leak information or allow an attacker to deface the page, although it is less likely to lead to a full compromise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixed active content is when active resources (such as scripts or CSS) are loaded over unencrypted HTTP and included into a secure (HTTPS) page. This is dangerous because it would allow an attacker to modify these files (as they are sent unencrypted), which could allow them to execute arbitrary code (JavaScript or styles) in the page. Passive content (such as images) loaded over an insecure connection can also leak information or allow an attacker to deface the page, although it is less likely to lead to a full compromise.
```

> Note that modern browsers will block active content being loaded from insecure sources into secure pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Modern browsers will block active content being loaded from insecure sources into secure pages.
```

> #### Redirecting From HTTP to HTTPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Redirecting from HTTP to HTTPS
```
https://capitalizemytitle.com/#Chicago

Many sites will accept connections over unencrypted HTTP, and then immediately redirect the user to the secure (HTTPS) version of the site with a `301 Moved Permanently` redirect and then setting the `Strict-Transport-Security` header to instruct the browser to always use HTTPS in future.

> However, this if an attacker is able to intercept this initial request, they could redirect the user to a malicious site, or use a tool such as [sslstrip](https://github.com/moxie0/sslstrip) to intercept subsequent requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if an attacker is able to intercept this initial request, they could redirect the user to a malicious site, or use a tool such as [sslstrip](https://github.com/moxie0/sslstrip) to intercept subsequent requests.
```

In order to defend against this type of attack, the site must use be added to the [preload list](https://hstspreload.org).

### Client Certificates

* Certificates not tied to individual
* Certificates from a public CA
* Generating certs with matching Issuer and CN/SAN
* Header spoofing

## How to Test

* Web browser
* OpenSSL

> * Main scanning tools (Nessus, Nmap, SSL Labs, sslscan, sslyze, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scanning tools (Nessus, Nmap, SSL Labs, sslscan, sslyze, O-Saft, etc)
```

> * STARTTLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* STARTTLS
```

I'm not clear on the implication here, if you're going to test services that use STARTTLS aren't you going to use openssl or something that was already listed?

Author: @kingthorin mostly a reminder to include something about STARTTLS and any considerations around it (such as not all tools supporting it on all protocols, or the fact that you might actually have TLS available on "unencrypted" ports like 21.

Reviewer: Okay

## References

* [OWASP Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)

> ---

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to follow the template. 

Unless everything after the HR is to be removed. In which case this no longer seems to contain much actual testing information.

I'm kinda confused what's going on here.

Author: @kingthorin the stuff below is the break is from the old guide - it will be deleted or incorporated into the new one, but I've not got that far yet. It's mostly there at the moment as a reminder to go through it.

Reviewer: Oh okay 👍 That makes more sense 😉

### Other Vulnerabilities

> The presence of a new service, listening in a separate tcp port may introduce vulnerabilities such as infrastructure vulnerabilities if the [software is not up to date](../02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/01-Test_Network_Infrastructure_Configuration.md). Furthermore, for the correct protection of data during transmission the Session Cookie must use the [Secure flag](../06-Session_Management_Testing/02-Testing_for_Cookies_Attributes.md) and some directives should be sent to the browser to accept only secure traffic (e.g. [HSTS](../02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/07-Test_HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security.md), CSP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of a new service, listening on a separate tcp port may introduce infrastructure vulnerabilities if the [software is not up to date](../02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/01-Test_Network_Infrastructure_Configuration.md). Furthermore, for the correct protection of data during transmission the Session Cookie must use the [Secure flag](../06-Session_Management_Testing/02-Testing_for_Cookies_Attributes.md), and some directives should be sent to the browser to accept only secure traffic (e.g. [HSTS](../02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/07-Test_HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security.md), and CSP).
```

The following is a scenario of how the attack can take place:

* Victim logs into the secure website at `https://somesecuresite/`.
* The secure site issues a session cookie as the client logs in.

> * While logged in, the victim opens a new browser window and goes to `http://examplesite/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* While logged in, the victim opens a new browser window and goes to `http://examplesite/`.
```

* An attacker sitting on the same network is able to see the clear text traffic to `http://examplesite`.
* The attacker sends back a `301 Moved Permanently` in response to the clear text traffic to `http://examplesite`. The response contains the header `Location: http://somesecuresite/`, which makes it appear that examplesite is sending the web browser to somesecuresite. Notice that the URL scheme is HTTP not HTTPS.

> * The victim's browser starts a new clear text connection to `http://somesecuresite/` and sends an HTTP request containing the cookie in the HTTP header in clear text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The victim's browser starts a new clear text connection to `http://somesecuresite/` and sends an HTTP request containing the cookie in the HTTP header in clear text.
```
